I got a simple straightforward and
fundamental question from the audience
and it's a question I have not seen or
heard answered already on the Internet
so let's tackle it in a relatively short
video here
I was asked vegan a vegan honestly
sincerely when these people go back to
eating meat these people having been
vegan for many years having been
committed to the vegan cause morally
ethically ecologically when they go back
to eating meat so many of them
experience these transformative effects
whether that's in their sex drive in
their sense of physical strength and
vitality whether it is psychological or
physiological we now have a pretty large
sample size we have a significant amount
of anecdotal evidence of people feeling
that it's a revelation and a
transformation they feel tremendously
energized they feel some kind of effect
when after being committed to veganism
they go back to being they go back to
being carnivores whatever you want to
say why is this this is in one of the
most heavily observed heavily discussed
heavily researched areas of social
anthropology ok it's because they're
engaging in boundary-pushing
behavior it's because they're engaging
in taboo violating behavior now not
everybody is like this I myself am
completely alien to this experience of
human nature but if you just start
reading the autobiographies of
historical figures doesn't really matter
if they're like politicians or actors or
actresses you will see there is an
incredibly common pattern human
psychology which was like when they were
growing up as teenagers they tried to
have sex with their boyfriend or
girlfriend in the backseat of a car and
the whole time they'd be terrified that
their parents would find them or their
older brother would find them that
they'd be discovered they'd be caught
and then they remained fascinated and
excited by this for the rest of their
lives they became a fetishist for having
sex in the backseat of a car and just it
just stays with them
there are white people who grow up with
a racist family and the American South
and their whole life they have this
fascination with being a white person
having sex with black people because it
was taboo because it was forbidden
because they're crossing a line because
they're engaging in boundary-pushing
behavior there is a very clear
psychological dimension to someone who
adhered to and believed in and promote
it a vegan diet someone who either
believed this believed in this as a form
of self-abnegation like they may have
thought of it as a kind of monastic vow
they may have thought of it in terms of
personal purity they may have thought of
it in terms of a moral mission to change
the world like an externalized mission
it's not about their self-improvement
but about improving the world they may
have thought about of it in terms of a
humble service to help animals the
suffering of animals however it was they
thought of it it is ultimately a
self-evident kink fetish
boundary-pushing moral precept violating
behavior that they get a thrill out of
when they then return to eating meat and
the psychological dimension this I think
is transparent and it's demonstrable
because all of these people can remember
what it was like eating meat when they
were just a kid growing up with their
parents before they'd adopted veganism
and it didn't have any of these effects
on them like you know with some of these
examples they never become like memes on
the internet was being fun oh I ate fish
for the first time in ten years and Wow
I had this you know amazing
transformation in my libido my sex drive
it often is the sex drive do you notice
that it off both male and female about
several reports of this right well again
I'm sorry this is one of the most study
most talked about things in anthropology
talk about kind of you know
boundary-pushing and you know liminal
zones of morality and so on sore liminal
meaning on the limits of morality
remember I even once read a sorry it can
be any it can be any boundary that
people are raised to not cross or in
this case what's maybe a little bit more
interesting is that it was a boundary
that they probably adopted maybe
teenagers but maybe in the early 20s it
probably wasn't a moral precepts they
grew up with where that was enforced on
them by outside authorities so they
believed in themselves but maybe that
makes frankly the erotic effect of
transgressing that boundary all the more
thrilling and all the more satisfying so
look I'll use two examples from opposite
sides the other globe I knew a guy who
was a boxer and I forget how far he took
I think he was in the training camps to
be on the Olympic team for boxing like
you know what he was somewhat serious he
was not a world champion boxer mean he
was training seriously for boxing up at
whatever level and you know he knew I
was speaking we talked about vegan
ethics and he described to me the scene
of him going to a farm wasn't even
really a slaughterhouse with a group of
other you know young men trained to be
boxers to drink the blood of a horse
like a horse that was to be killed that
day you can imagine this is like a
[ __ ] Stone Age ritual I mean this is
let's take it back to experiences people
had 10,000 years ago you know and you
know everyone doing this ritual they
went this was legal by the way I mean
saying that people eat meat this wasn't
believable this was in France this is a
white hand in France this is a Western
civilization and you know they went and
they had they each had a cup and you can
imagine they're young guys who are in
some ways nervous and in some ways may
be cocky and proud and you know they
stand around and you watch this animal
die of course if you can used your
imagination the blood comes out of the
animal hot and thick and of course it's
disgusting if you let yourself be
disgusted but they want to seem tough
they want us don't want to vomit it was
like probably you can remember being a
teenager and drinking vodka or turning
whiskey for the first time and it
doesn't taste good you're not used to
something you can imagine there were a
lot of psychological moments to this and
this guy told me absolutely like with
conviction that he got some kind of
boost in drinking you know horse blood
and as I recall he did it again I don't
know how many times but he owned another
occasion it was just it was just cow
blood it was a slaughterhouse for cows
and going into the hot blood so human
him and this group of ass
it was something not unknown within the
subculture of boxers now you can do a
chemical analysis and say okay what is
actually in horse blood fat salt water
if this there there are some things you
can be reacting to there there's some
level of chemical effect but primarily
just this whole scenario the whole setup
obvious what kind of effect is gonna
having you and it's gonna have a lot of
the quality frankly of some kind of dark
satanic ritual there's gonna be a sense
of fear fear of death seeing blood
seeing this animal that the smell if you
guys this vegan activist has been animal
slaughterhouses you know there's a smell
of the animals they stink already but
you know there's the smell of death in
the air it's it's probably that alone
that even if you don't feel afraid
consciously you're probably reacting
that and feeling keyed up and so on then
you drink this hot salty beverage um and
you know I read another account I
mentioned it in another video briefly of
a young man who was fighting in the
civil war in northern Myanmar and he
went out and in very bizarre
circumstances he was rescued basically
by a tribe of local local people still
living in in tribal conditions whatever
gonna say local people living in very
simple traditional conditions and to
help him and the other the other guys
with him they strung up a goat and so
that's the road and offered him hot go
tight and I mean he was somewhat
starving at the time you know he didn't
describe it positively he was he felt
really disgusted by it he didn't want to
shame the people who did this ritual for
me cuz they were also trying to help him
back from you know used to some extent
dehydrated and starving and you know he
didn't want to insult his host kind of
thing but he described how revolting it
was and then he felt kind of dizzy and
weird and awful after during this uh if
you just drink salt water if you drink
the salt water from the ocean you can
feel pretty weird so I also don't know
if just the salt content is part of the
problem or the psychoactive effect of
drinking up a significant quantity of
blood
I don't animal okay so yeah there are
exactly two dimensions to this story on
one hand there's a kind of physiological
medical nutritional reality of what's in
the blood you're drinking or the meat
you're eating yes that's not that
complex that's a pretty short shallow
story like guess what if you eat eggs
you get a ton of fat and a ton of
cholesterol and it's not a lot of food
value in eggs you know if you suddenly
start eating red meat you get a ton of
salt a ton of protein ton of fat
cholesterol and other stuff that's bad
for you
you know it's gonna have some effect on
you but having a vegan protein shake you
know I feel a little bit of a boost
after drinking a vegan protein because
I'm getting some getting some nutrients
if you just drink something that's full
of sugar you can get a boost from the
sugar and caffeine and so on that side
is is pretty shallow and pretty
straightforward but um you know here on
YouTube most people really play it cool
I think you're kind of under estimating
how much veganism meant to these same
people and look I used the same verb you
know you can call them fake vegans you
can call them and sincere you can say
they were never really activists or
never really cared about ecology
whatever all that's doubtless true you
know all that more they're probably
terrible people but for a lot of these
people veganism was one of the most
meaningful things they had in their life
give a great example Charles Marlow
completed yet complete scumbag former
heroin addict junkie by his own
admission by the way I'm not making any
allegations here I can remember him
talking to me and him saying to me in a
very honest down-to-earth way that what
he found veganism he was really
searching for something he wanted
something more meaningful in his life
and you know not conventional religion
he wanted a sense of meaning sense of
direction a sense of moral purpose and
veganism gave him those things and
veganism gives you a self-discipline for
many people a sense of personal purity
again but even just that one word
mission a sense of mission sense of
direction that means a lot to people and
by that same token violating that
pushing the family's coin behind it
wallowing in her own filth while eating
that the laws of
you're yourself that is gonna have for a
lot of people some kind of some kind of
psychologically throwing element so look
guys I mention on this channel before
relatively long time ago I do not
experience jealousy I do not experience
any kind of thrill in violating
boundaries for the sake of finding
boundaries doesn't turn me on and it
really does nothing for me I mean all
this you know a you know there are
people who grow up in the Catholic
Church and then they have fantasies
about like you know having sex on the
horrible wooden benches in the church
and it's precisely because it's
forbidden Melissa had a friend a female
friend and she was tempted by this guy
and she admitted she said to Melissa but
you know what the worst thing is she
said I know I only want this guy because
it's forbidden because I'm not allowed
to be with them she met him in like a
workplace scenario there were various
reasons why it was forbidden love oh
yeah um first I was okay now now she's
got a problem
now she's that that's that's something
you never say there are people for whom
the forbidden and violating the law is
something very exciting there must be
some people who just who just grow out
of it you know you tell me what is sexy
about a pair of handcuffs really think
about that I mean the pathetic thing
about human nature is that a huge
percentage of us I don't know it's 30%
40% Z percents look at a pair of
handcuffs and get turned on because
people people want to be restrained
people want to be beaten and humiliated
what and I know when I was a teenager
what I didn't even know it up when I was
like 17
there were fully grown women who wanted
me to do this stuff to know there were
there were girls my age too there were
women around you thought oh wow this is
some kind of tall self-confident guy you
know
in terms of what people get turned on by
them what they get fascinated by you
know the human mind creates these
divisions
boundaries create the division between
black and white
grow up between you know Christian and
Jew between you know whatever you want
to say you know Jew and Gentile
I had one ex-girlfriend and she grew up
Christian enough that it was it was a
little bit thrilling for it was a little
bit kinky just my Jewishness you know I
don't think of myself that way I don't
think of myself as exotic from her
perspective you know that was you know
that was exotic that was thrilling
we even had there was some first-person
testimony from privileged vegan another
vegan youtuber here and she talked about
how before she became vegan just because
she grew up with the idea that like deep
fried chicken wings or for men that it
was thrilling for her to wear a leather
jacket and he greasy unhealthy chicken
wings out of a bucket she was doing
something that like a blue-collar man
would do and not something a refined
erudite you know a woman would do like
gender roles and social class all the
sense of violating about it she felt
thrilled by this she felt proud and
powerful about this so you know people
want to violate boundaries and and they
experience it I think that is the purest
word as a thrill it's not taking the
peach out of the orchard it's knowing
that you're climbing over a fence and
stealing a peach and that you have to
scramble to get back over the fence as
quickly as possible and there's an
attack dog coming from that is the bleak
brutal reality of what human beings want
and yet most people are too lazy and too
self-indulgent and they don't actually
get out of their chair and take real
risks in the real world they don't do
some of the crazy things I do they don't
go to do humanitarian work on the border
between Laos and Myanmar and have people
threaten to kill them but none of these
kinds of right they don't take
meaningful risks in their life they want
to take meaningless risks so I guess you
can say in a phrase this is the
psychology of the roller coaster ride
but most people before they get to the
roller coaster they put on their safety
belts